# Hypertext Pre-processor Model View Controller Framework
 
The project title “PHP MVC Framework” is actually a software framework project. A software framework is a universal, reusable software platform used to develop applications, products and solutions. The MVC framework is a well-established design pattern that is widely used for applications with a user interface component .Then this project also includes this feature. This type of framework avoids the unauthorized access and it authenticates the authorized users or hosts.

MVC is popular as it isolates the application logic from the user interface layer and supports separation of concerns. Here the Controller receives all requests for the application and then works with the Model to prepare any data needed by the View. The View then uses the data prepared by the Controller to generate a final presentable response. The MVC abstraction can be graphically represented as follows. Although originally developed for desktop computing, MVC has been widely adopted as an architecture for World Wide Web applications in major programming languages. Several web frameworks have been created that enforce the pattern. These software frameworks vary in their interpretations, mainly in the way that the MVC responsibilities are divided between the client and server.

The fundamental purpose of designing this project is to provide a structure and some inbuilt functions that are required by every web application in order to function optimally. Web applications share some common data amongst themselves through API that can be added in this framework. The main reason to develop this framework was to provide just the basic functionalities not any extra classes that might slow down the overall process cycle of request-response. The idea for choosing the mvc pattern was that it is easily upgradable and the user can add its own functionalities and its own libraries and usually can even improve the pre-built core files. The Framework has got a built in functionality to load all the classes automatically and the user does not need to add any include files on its own.

